# Blue Sky

Blue Sky

Blue sky artist is bland corporate art type during the day but makes transgressive stuff at night like an art superhero.

I turn stick slow in the stream of conciousness between aslepp and awake. The nursemaid hum of the AC blurs the noise of a thousand wasted journeys in the streets below. As the last of our dinosaur piss goes up in the smoke that is choking our once beautiful world. Now I’m not one of those whiners about progress but, dang we sure need somewher to live.


Preamble

The first time I died rough hands held me, half pushed through the broken window of a carriage. The train’s motion lashed heavy rain, stinging onto my face and through blurred vision I saw the tunnel mouth approach. As I ploughed teeth first into the too solid masonry I wondered at the brief taste of sandstone.

That’s going to set the wrong tone without some context. Instead.

I turn stick slow in the stream of consciousness that flows between asleep and awake. My thoughts rush forward but their orientation changes only by degrees. Like an opinion formed on a roiling surface they are real and stateable but so transient as to be essentially meaningless.

Boring. Try again.

I used to live in a house on a hill overlooking a lake. And every morning I would awaken to find a new sky painted on the water. From the shore the actual surface became visible with all its undulations and waves. But from up on the hill it more or less disappeared, slight distortions of the reflection rather than being a thing in its own right.

This is going to be at least as difficult as I thought.

No matter how deep the water, it is only the amount of surface area that matters and there would never be enough to hold all of the sky.

Maybe we should leave that for later as well.

If a tree’s branches were long enough and the end of each twig was a leave constrained to move only on the surface of a sphere, which was the boundary of your perceptual limits. Then you would have no idea all the leaves were the same thing.

This isn’t going to work. How about some straightforward sex and violence?

Okay but before we get to that I just want to be clear that later on, when the whole world ending thing comes up, it’s not something to worry about. It is a metaphorical ending and not a literal one. There are no rogue asteroids involved or global pandemics. It's more like the death of your parents. The world is generally still very much as it was before but your appreciation of it has been altered to such an extent that it makes sense to say the old world has gone.

It's a bit like becoming enlightened. But the opposite.

Also, it should be noted, we are not talking about incremental changes. No bits at a time in the same way your body now has no constituent parts that existed when you were six. Although that’s pretty trippy. Unless of course you are very young and should be doing your homework.

The world only truly ends with a change both violent and sudden. It just doesn’t have to be globally appreciable because despite many teacher’s best efforts each of our worlds is ours alone.

Chapter 1

So once upon a time I lived in a house on a hill overlooking a lake and blah blah blah. The house was part of the estate of a wealthy businessman of near Eastern extraction whose daughter found that I sufficiently irritated her father to be worth keeping around but not so much that I would one day ‘disappear’. His actual country of origin was never explicitly stated although I feel the tribal nature of our dealings and the implied source of his wealth would seem to indicate that it was one of the -istans. I apologise for the gross generalisation.

When she left to study for her doctorate at Cambridge it was clearly the end of our time together and I never expected to see her again. Fortunately for me, with his daughter gone, the father saw no need to visit the house and with no official notice to vacate I simply kept a low profile and hoped that no-one would mention the inappropriateness of my continued residence.

The building itself was squat and strong like the people it once sheltered, with foot thick walls and a low doorway built for less nourished times. The windows, which rattled and creaked in the slightest breeze were the only useful modern additions to the exterior, although a wind turbine in the back garden spun and was pretty it provided as much usable electricity as the dynamo on a child's unused pushbike.

Most days, after breakfast I would retreat to the outhouse and attempt to record my memory of that morning's sky on canvas or wood. Only the breeze like draft from the ill fitting door prevented the stench of ancient pigs, and the more modern odours of turpentine and thinners from sending me into a stupor. The same swirls of air would dry my paints in unpredictable and occasionally interesting ways and added a man against nature element to the creative process that I had not experienced before. Some of the finished pieces would convey an almost palpable sense of location while others looked like puddles of strangely coloured water. Unfortunately I found that I couldn't tell which was going to be which until the very last brushstroke was applied, wasting hours of time that in youth I felt I could ill afford but of course was exactly the best time to waste.

One morning in late Spring I stooped through the doorway and barefoot on the dew soaked grass surveyed the body of water below. "I've seen that one before," I thought and decided it was time to leave for the city. Which is when all the trouble began.

Chapter 2

I spill from the backdoor of the club, a drunk jostled by careless elbows, and stumble onto the stained concrete of a delivery bay unused since the warehouse was repurposed. The banded metal fire door crashes closed behind me like the crack’d brass bell of doom and I get that old, ejected from the garden feeling.

Robbed of the barrage of bright lights and music my senses go dormant as they try to adjust to the quiet. On hands and knees I look down into a puddle of slick black, an unfamiliar face, gaunt and panting. Chest tight in the grip of some narcotic embrace. The surface ripples as I breathe and I hear a low throaty growl behind the back alley detritus, off somewhere to my right.

Fight or flight response in full effect I stumble towards the only opening that doesn’t obviously end in sheer brick and garbage, the wet walled valley (birth metaphor) of decay leading to a chain link fence fence out of focus then comes in blocking the way) and the civilization of streetlights and traffic beyond. I try to climb but greasy fingers and fat toed boots keep me prisoner. I can hear the animal sounds again and peer back, shapes moving, grounded bats, black on black. Dragging a squealing rusted barrel full of old news and rotten wood against the fence I clamber up, the barrel unsteady beneath me. I jump for the top, one handed, spiked ends of wire digging into my palm, as the barrel spills away below. History read on a bed of concrete. I swing, kicking, a hung man with an arm for rope and then my other hand catches. I can’t look down but I hear them sniffing like pigs for truffle. Blood runs down my arms from ruined hands and I pull. The dead weight of my body against a billion tonnes of dirt. I manage to throw my left arm over the top of the fence and I sob as the frayed ends of metal bite new flesh. At the sound of my voice the investigation below stops. A moment’s silence. Everything is poised at the point of maximum instability. Sudden snarling and yapping. (Blood rushing in my ears…)I get my other arm over and one leg half way up before I feel the first teeth on my other leg. (Grip/pressure on my leg. My jeans tear, and then the subtle pop of pierced flesh.) Like a swimmer with a shark, there’s no sense of grip, just the weight, pulling down. A series of jerks, each more powerful than the last test me beyond endurance. I cling desperately to the top of the fence.
“No.”
 My chin rips open on the barbs as my grip gives way, and I fall backwards, into darkness.

(Echo touching puddle later in bathroom mirror and cut chin.)




















One mind many bodies, everyone on the bus gets their minds linked. One killer stalks them all to return his piece of mind. Two people on the roof at the end, one falls (the good guy) but the other person experiences the fall and dies.

You can intellectualise it all you want. Study it. Write poetry. But in the end it's just two monkeys fucking.

I woke the next morning and at least there was daylight.

The hellish odour of burning prehistory charred on the inside of the tunnel made me wretch.

If he had ever had a grip on reality it was an oily sweaty palmed grip at best.


I don't think my local Asian shopkeeper has my best interests at heart. Every time I visit, no matter the time of day or what I am buying he asks, "Anything else?", with a wink and nod towards the beer fridge.







Chapter 1
I turn stick slow in the muddy stream of consciousness that separates awareness, from the oblivious night. I smell the last gasp of civilisation, lover's breath hot on my face. The fume tainted air pushing thick, through the open window. Ventilation dictated by a childhood free from the nursemaid hum of air conditioning. Each gust stirs the heavy drapes, billowing sunlight, alive with the phosphene dance of dead skin cells and yesterday's memories, into the darkened room. The sound of internal combustion engines and impatience accompany it.

The room is dead, forced to breathe sick air by the artificial respiration of the outside world and my own small contribution (Trying to breathe for the city, I only manage a few breaths before the enormity of the task sinks down on my chest, (like a fat hooker) unable to move a sufficient volume of air). Its failure to provide any sense of the cradling comfort I had violated it in search of, another disappointment in a week of disappointments. But still the slow hand of morning reaches half way up the crumpled sheets before I rise to pull back the curtains, a conjuror’s reveal of the day ahead. Featureless towers of bleach lit metal and glass reflect the older buildings trapped among them. Rusty tools embedded in an overgrown lawn. Above and between, the infinite regress of powder blue sky provides the backdrop for a fifties movie poster, advertising the City of the Future. When I first saw it from the air it had all the realty of a bad matte painting and still seems, more often than not, to be no more than a clever facsimile of a good place to live.

In the bathroom I get that off balance sense of being at odds with the world. Some mornings you can tell your in trouble because you can’t even piss straight. The shower stings some life into my dead flesh. Hot needles splash across my shoulders and back as I bend to pull discarded clumps of someone else’s hair from the choked drain. The soap is more chemical peel than hygiene, with a scent that will follow me around all day. In the kitchen I drag clothes, drowned corpse wet from the dryer. The towel I discard on top of the cooker.

Shards of glass frost the living room carpet, grinding to dust underfoot as I cross. The spray leads back to the gaping maw of a shattered television. Leant forward now, disgorging its sickness. They are often compared to eyes, but I would consider them to be more like mouths, full of rotten teeth. They whisper dark lies and vain promises through the lonely hours, strobe flickering hypnotically, their quiet message of submission made irresistible through repetition.

Art exhibit is shop dummy’s with shards of glass from TV screen imbedded in their eyes.

I find my jacket by the door, which I lock as I leave. The stairs down are neither well kept nor unpleasant. I check the mailbox for a souvenir but it is empty. Some critics consider my work to be a trifle tame, but it is not without its risks. I am sure my oblivious collaborators will appreciate my efforts when they return from their Special Prize Weekend Break. I would enjoy being here when they discover my intrusion, but I try to maintain a separation between artist and art.

One of the few pieces of advice from my mother that I have consistently heeded over the years was never attempt to stir social change in a stagnant population on an empty stomach. And while that was not at the top of my to-do list for today, you can never be sure how things will turn out. So I decide to be better safe than sorry.

The little diner on the corner I passed last night is still open, different clothes but the same people. The food looks edible, less grey and beaten down than modern culinary requirements would seem to require, but it is all in the presentation. The equivalent of putting rouge on a bloated corpse. A year before, I would rather have paid someone to shit in my mouth than eat here, but all art is suffering.

Doris is my waitress. Hair styled by bird attack and hard bitten up to her elbows. She’s been ploughing her lonely furrow for a number of years. I consider changing tables but at least she isn’t chewing gum while she walks and there is a merciful absence of small talk. Probably has a cat.

I eat in the local style, using only a fork, and lip read the morning news on the television above the counter. Apparently nothing that does not involve sport or famous people has happened.

I can feel the nutrients being stripped from my body and the underlying tang of heavy chemical addition leaves a bleachy residue in my mouth. My teeth itch. It is a high price to pay for some calories. Aesthetically though, the food almost lives up to the well composed photography on the menu. I avoid the coffee. In the next booth, a middle aged woman who has been visited more than most by the ravages of entropies cruel hand, chokes down a milkshake she cannot digest. If I wanted a dose of bovine antibiotics I would go to a vet.

A bell rings when I open the door to leave.

As I step down from the last of the small flight of stairs connecting the diner to the street below, I am the witness to a crime. Snatched purse in hand the perpetrator dashes past me intent on escape. I catch the back of their collar and momentum does the rest. Almost horizontal when gravity defeats inertia the thief hits the ground too hard. Lungs emptied with a cough. Eyes instantly dull. From below looking up a starfish of splintered bone. Blood seeps across the concrete from beneath a puddle of blonde hair. I will meet her social worker later at the hospital where finally my au de detergent will be at home.

I remember a long time ago reading a story in a comic book, where there was a character who had the ability to adjust reality, but was unaware of his power. He might be driving to work one day and be stuck in traffic and he would think to himself, "I wish I had left for work twenty minutes earlier," and low and behold the universe would rearrange itself so that he had, and he, along with everyone else would be unaware that any change had taken place.

Fortunately, he was a mundane little man of limited imagination, so none of his requests for alterations to the fabric of the space time continuum were too outlandish. Broken vases repaired, hot wife acquired, the occasional promotion. He lived a quiet life, in a quiet suburb with a constant dull throb at the back of his head.

One day, an alien invasion force arrived and commenced the conquest of the planet. Our saviour, surrounded by destruction and devastation wishes that the aliens had never bothered to turn up and that everything was back to normal. And suddenly it was. Unfortunately the scale of this fix causes his power to burn out, but he does get rid of that annoying headache.  

The question currently occupying my mind, as I bounced along in the back of a particularly well travelled ambulance, with the thief of Baghdad, was what would become of the fellow after the story ended. In my considered opinion he would be fucked. Even something minor in comparison to the alien invasion scenario, a mugging for example, or a stubbed toe, or a lost wallet could destroy him, because nothing in his life had ever gone wrong. All the little day to day traumas that most of us take for granted had instantly been erased from his experience by his gift. In medical terms, which seemed appropriate given the circumstances, he would have no resistance to the vagaries of life, because for him, there had been no exposure.

If he had been aware of his ability he could have wished for a world in which he would never have to use his gift again, that is one where nothing bad ever happens, and the universe could then have arranged itself accordingly. I think this would resemble some people's definition of heaven. Unimaginably tedious people, obviously. Of course an inky black void, where nothing at all ever happened would also fulfil his request. Unfortunately I know a couple of people who would consider this also to be heavenly, but only if you were really, really aware of all the nothingness that was going on.

Fortunately there had been no police involvement in the incident. The victim had retrieved his bag and walked away, sporting an unpleasant little crime and punishment smirk.

Over there jumping around like an electrified epileptic.

The artist calls all his work Blue Sky until he figures out what to call them. His version of untitled.

You have to be careful with arguments in pubs. It is all too easy to go from friendly disagreement to tumbler throwing mayhem with one poorly chosen word.

Problem for artist not having been to college.

It’s all about moderation; a slice of chocolate cake every now and again is hardly a problem. But when you find yourself getting through a whole cake every day…

He takes a shard of bone from Tom’s shattered femur and begins to write.

The day she left was exactly like the last day of the summer holidays.

Created man in his own image, I think, is something of a conceit on man’s part.

Some people say to be a city you need a cathederal but I think you just need more wankers than there are in a town.


Artworks would get sent off to the city where they would join the Darwinian struggle for gallery space.

‘I think you will find that the generally accepted term is Conceptual Art.’
‘Well, I think if you shorten that slightly you get a more accurate description. I would call it Con Art. All we are doing is making art about art. It’s not even about the artist. It’s about the idea of art. It’s like when a writer starts writing about writing, with a very few exceptions, that’s it for them. They are out of ideas. It’s time to put the pens in the drawer and spend the rest of their declining years pottering around in the garden. When did art stop illuminating our lives, throwing light on the human condition? When did we stop being able to see the emotions behind the work? When we look into the mind of the artist now, all we see is a clever and sometimes a not so clever idea. Where is the heart, where is the passion? Art has lost its soul. It’s all up here now and not down here.’ I had intended to point to my head and then my heart but in the heat of the moment I became confused, I think it was the heat from the studio lights, and I ended the statement instead by jabbing my right index finger repeatedly into my crotch.

A writer who writes about writing has nothing useful to say.

Kathy was a foot model so the injury was particularly unfortunate.

I rolled over and felt a body in the bed next to me. Still warm at least. Whether they are alive or not.

I once created an art project which no one will ever see in its entirety. I stood on top of carlton hill and took pictures of all the tourists who asked over the course of a month. Each of these photos form a part of the project

Aldous Huxley transportive experience. The watercolour painter on TV late at night story, Ayer’s Rock. - flashback to cottage, only a howling gale provides enough electricity to power the television

Foreign Faces art exhibit. Stand on Calton Hill or some other tourist places and ask foreign tourists to take pictures of the artist. Then exhibit them with the name and home town of the tourist underneath each one.

Perpetually burning American flag exhibit. I’m not sure whether I’m saying the American spirit is indomitable or if they are so oblivious that they don’t realise everyone hates them. And they suck.

The guys in the bar could all be different aspects of the one man’s personality.

You know dentists are cheating bastards right? What happens after you’ve been to the dentist, your teeth fuck up.

You have to blow the roadcrew if you want to fuck the band.

My body is host to a colony of sugar loving parasites that control my diet.

He’s coughing fit and healthy.

I have to touch people to reassure myself that they are real. Smelling them just isn’t enough anymore.

We don’t make things anymore. We make the ideas of things. In the context of modern art, most people are not going to see the object. They are only going to hear about, so why go to all the trouble of making it just so a relatively small number of people can troop past it in a gallery somewhere while drinking bad wine and pretending they know what they’re talking about. Eventually everything will crumble to dust and only the ideas will be left anyway. So if you create something that is only an idea will it be somehow less diluted than an idea that once actually had a physical form.

So when an artist creates a portrait. That’s really the only time you get explained to you, visually at least, someone else’s perception of your being.

The artist looks up at the firmament. The stars are god taunting us. He’s thrown a black cloth over the universe like a budgie cage. With little holes in it showing through the light from Heaven. Making us wonder how to get there. Black cloth backdrop of the universe pierced in a million points. The bright pin prick lights of God shining through. Daring us to work out the way to Heaven.

I am often asked what it was like to dine on the blood sweat and tears of struggling artists. It tasted like victory.

Faces of tourism. Wait at a famous landmark. Ask each of the tourists to take a photograph of the artist. Exhibit the series of portraits along with the names and home town of each of the tourists.

Hiram is my dealer. If he ever had a second name he lost it many years ago in a complicated transaction , which no doubt netted him a small profit.

When you start out writing they always tell you to write what you know. This means if you work in an office you should write about offices, if you are a fisherman write about the sea. Unfortunately all too often this gives a young offer the excuse to reveal in excrutiating detai;l how much they have been affected by Uncle Toby tickling their ring when they were a nipper. In the same way artists will often paint what they know. If they live in the country they may paint landscapes or wildlife. If they live on the coast they may paint the sea. And if they live in the city they will paint portraits of all the hot women they are never going to have. Or cars.

"Another true artiste, so difficult to domesticate. A pet dog ready to bite the hand that feeds."

Vanity was by far his most prominent feature. He always leaned too close when he spoke. So he could see his reflection in your eyes.

The whole extreme art movement, a response to all that made up sport malarkey.

There are two ways to view any framed image. Either you are looking at a surface or you are looking through a window at the image beyond. Art which implies the window is generally more expansive and involving because it implies a further world extending beyond the edges of the image.

As an artist he was dense with meaning.

Goes mental when he discovers someone has been adding his signature to the paintings.

There was something pure about doing Christmas cards. I spent the whole of my first year at art school doing portraits of raw meat. I developed quite a close relationship with my local butcher.

Remember, that when you smell something you are actually inhaling tiny particles of the thing you smell. So when you smell shit, that is actual shit that is in your nose.

Art project, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights translated into Morse Code with the dots and dashes replaced by fuck and cunt.

Art project, a dead tree lit by a spotlight. Leaves are arranged on the shadow in an approximation of foliage.

Art project, snapshot each frame of a running man. Merge together and print using a fast prototyping machine.

Vicky Versa the performance artist.

At the end of time when God is toting up all the pluses and minuses to see if we were a worthwhile experiment, the representative of humanity will pull out all the great works of art, civilisations but God will remain unconvinced. Until he shows him the film, The Way Things Go, and God will sit back satisfied and smile. (The good part of this is God doing the accounts)

Once a piece of art has been authored the audiences interpretation of it becomes just as valid as the originators.

I’m looking at a river but I’m thinking of the sea.

Have a scene where the artist or his scruffy mate is sitting on the toilet eating a curry or something similar.

So Mr Artist, you’ve had enough and you’re going to go home. And what will you do there. Chalk boards outside bars.


Modern art exhibit where sales of some item or event are recorded on a map with pins.

The sky at night- a pierced black cloth concealing a billion watt light. Behind it lies heaven. One day we’ll have learned enough to pull it aside and see what all the fuss was about.

Religious people are taking the safe option by believing. If you have faith there’s a god and there isn’t, there’s no price to pay.

If the Bible was God’s exact word he would have written it in a language we could all understand.

God visits the psychiatrist and explains how it all went wrong for her. “The only rule I have now is, you can’t escape God’s love.”

Chapter heading: What Bill had to Say about religion. If the Bible is the exact word of God I would expect it to be better written. And then the rest of the bible stuff.

If God made the universe for us, why is there so much of it.

The moral argument,

I am not going to pretend any insight into the mind of god, but...

a) One of the many programs running in the mind of god.
b) We each exist in our own separate universe but they somehow overlap (average out) to form the environment we experience. Consensus reality.
c) There is only one person in the whole universe but they constantly switch between personalities each of which can interact with the others. Multi personalities on a grand scale.

We are all foetuses in the womb of god.

Take a person with strong religious beliefs to the psychiatrist in an imaginary world where there are no organised religions, if that’s even possible. Now ask them to explain what they believe. A big man who lives in the sky, with a beard, made the universe and everything in it. Certified mental and released into the community on your own recognisance.

I am going to lay my cards on the table and start off this little rant by stating that I consider all people with strong religious views to be in actual fact mental. Not in the strict Scottish definition of the term, which usually implies some propensity towards violence, although considering the amount of conflict religious disagreements generate I may have to reconsider, but in the more general, soft in the head meaning. If you believe a big man with a beard who lives in the sky made the universe and everything in it you are delusional and should only be allowed spoons and soft furnishings.

Every time someone says that to me I consider it a black mark against our society’s intellectual standing.

Why is the universe so big if it’s only for us?

Where were all the insects on the ark?

I understand that dreams are a method for my mind to organise my experiences and make connections between them. The mind is a connective machine. Our advantage over other animals is our unsurpassed ability to make associations and join the dots. It rains. Seeds grow. Oh oh. I know lets add water to seeds. Unfortunately the dots are not always part of the same picture and our desire to connect cause and effect results in false associations. I broke a mirror. Bad things happened. Superstition and religion were born from this desire.

Gospel singing is the tip of an iceberg of intolerance and mischief that has no rational grounding. No-one will fight harder for something than someone who has no way to prove their assertion. Nothing stings so much as a denial of your faith. (Scott and Wendy dinosaur story.) Their only defence is to take offence and cling more firmly to their empty vessel.

People with weak or un-stated religious beliefs provide a supportive layer of background radiation and tolerance in which strong religious beliefs can flourish. If we could reduce this level of background radiation we could free our society from this prehistoric blight that has afflicted us for all of recorded time. Our choice is to change a large number of people in a small way, or a small number of people in a profound way.

Religion is just a complicated version of the bogeyman for an infant society. We really should have grown out of it by now.

If the best description your religion can provide of the universe is that it is the Vanity Project of an Absentee Landlord then I want nothing more to do with you.

Equate religious ideas to other superstitions. Superstitions arise because one of our evolutionary advantages is our tremendous abilty to make connections between seemingly disparate events. The buttercups have opened. Soon the buffalo will come. But sometimes this facility gets carried away and so superstitions arise. Positive reinforcement.

Freedom of speech for all, Holocaust deniers, racists etc. You can’t demonstrate the stupidity of something if it has been suppressed. Only instigation of violence should be controlled.

Discus abortion. (use as contraception, also every human being being a unique individual, that particular combination of genes will never recur in the whole of time)


The best painting I ever made was of a girl I met in the supermarket. You could see into her fucking soul it was so much her on the canvas. And the only way I could sell it was to cut it up into squares, burn half of them and fill in the gaps with the ash.


There may only be one electron that is very busy, it skids backwards and forwards through time doing all the jobs an electron must be present for.

I was on the toilet once and reached across to pull the toilet paper. As it rolled round a fucking huge spider appeared over the roll's horizon and preceeded along the sheets towards my hand. It was only at the very last moment as the bristles from the foremost of his hairy legs reached my thumb that I escaped man's primitive fear of arachnids and regained the presence of mind to simply let go.  The unrolled portion of the paper swung down like a broken rope bridge and the spider was knocked loose by its impact with the wall, falling onto the cold lino, where I regret to say it met an untimely demise beneath a fast descending copy of Fortean Times.

J August Withey - character

The magic search formula, a special set of search terms that leads the questor to a page of esoteric knowledge or secret organisation.

Time lapse photography of person in bed reveals strange figure watching over them. Flickers as if they are only present for a moment every now and then.

The reason enlightened people realise we are all connected is because it is really all the bacteria that are conscious.



So that's it in a nutshell, be Christ don't worship him, be Buddha or whoever, don't follow them and hopefully things will work out. If you make it out here it will be nice to see you. If you don't and you decide that blowing someone up is a better option then better luck next time.


The end of a chapter isn't the end of a book in the same way that the end of a civilisation isn't the end of the world. I'm sure there's an exception to that statement but I can't quite put my finger on it.

The End

