# Notive Art

One of my pet peeves is the artist’s statement, placed next to impenetrable pieces, rarely to explain but usually to add an extra veneer of importance. The artist comes up with some highfalutin drivel to explain the collection of bottle caps she’s just glued to the wall. They nearly always include the word liminal.

Plant the seed of a deciduous tree twenty four years ago and wait till Autumn. Collect the leaves in a basket and uproot the tree. Place the tree in an exhibition space lit by a single source. Arrange the leaves on the shadow cast by the tree, making it whole once again.

Climb a hill overlooking your city. Ask various tourists to take your photograph and find out where they are visiting from. Exhibit the portraits with a label of the place the people came from beneath each image.

Buy a sheet of card. Translate the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (or other document of your choosing) into Morse code. Write the translated text onto the card but for every dot write fuck and for every dash write cunt.

Write an algorythm that generates every possible string of approx 500 alphabetical characters. Add your own punctuation and share on the Internet completing this project before it properly begins.

Make a full body mould of yourself naked in Savasana. Fill the mould with water and freeze. Float the ice corpse on a nearby body of water, preferably a still pond. Repeat until the water is covered by melting bodies to the required density.

---

Let’s refer to whites as people without colour for a hundred years and see what happens.

The Berry Pickers - Carol Dewart

The Late Walk - David Hay

A book is a house of leaves and a library a forest.

Had an idea for something beautiful, transcendent or clever but lack the means, skills or motivation to enact it? Share your ideas here to receive praise and appreciation without doing the hard part.

At the supermarket - Assistant to the chaos. Assistant to the chaos.

Meg Rodger visual artist

Some people’s reservoirs of complicity are deeper than others.

The girl with a blackbird for hair

A portrait that changes suddenly eg the eyes open or look up randomly but only when there is only one person looking.

Mate, mate, mate, mate, mate, the door!
Treat everyone as if it’s you living a different life.

michael reisch

pile on poverty

Everyones order is different

We all have things we have to do every day. Work, eat, sleep, etc. WHere does the impulse to create come fromwhen its not done for any gain, when its just somethingthat comes to us and we take the time and effort to bring it into being.

A Twitter bot that replys in woofs and barks

Attention to derail t shirt

Simple not clever

A fuel pump nozzle with one last drip. Well there goes the last of the dinosaur piss.

Our eyes are made for twilight so have an exhibition of paintings designed for dim light.

Put some stuff on red bubble

Uninformed police

Afetr many years and much rumination I have come to the hard conclusion that the reason I may not have gotten on in life, been successful, bred, matured is that deep down at some very fundemental level, despite having lived, loved, travelled, been enraged and maudlin, this isn’t the real world.

One day I would be reborn, become enlightened or ascend and the current flimsy sham would be torn aside to reveal the truth. Or at least thats my excuse.

Sometimes I’ve glimpsed it through a piece of art or a stroy, that feeling that something is about to drop into place. The end of mullholland drive or the last of Alex Garlands Coma (before someone explained the code to me), a single line about the authors daughter in Cosmic Trigger. ALl tantalising glimpses that there is more.

The time I fell in a hole.
/ More or less all of it.
How much art did you not see yesterday

At first when you are struggling to find food all your attention goes on finding food. Once youve got that sorted out you start to worry about things that are fractionally less important. Until eventually you are lying sleepless in your mansion frantic, correctly, that the poor people are going to kill you and takes all your stuff.

Or thinking about it another way. When you are following your programming and worrying about finding food. Thats fine, because it is after all vitally important. But eventually you run out of worthwhile things toe worry about but that worry mechanism is still there and you start sweating about whether or not Angelina and Brad are going to get back together.
